---
title: 'Use the DRIP potential'
date: 2019-03-10
permalink: /posts/2019/03/use-drip/
tags:
  - Interatomic potentials
  - DRIP
  - LAMMPS
  - KIM API
---

The `DRIP (Dihedral-angle-corrected registry-dependent interlayer potential)` provides
an improved description of the interlayer interactions for multilayer graphene structures.
See [our paper](https://doi.org/10.1103/physrevb.98.235404) for more information about it.
We have implemented the `DRIP` as a KIM model. To use it, follow the below instructions.

### KIM-API
Follow <https://openkim.org/kim-api/> to install `kim-api-v2-2.0.0`.

The instructions given there assume you have root access and install the API to
`/usr/local`. If you do not have root access or want to install to another directory,
follow `INSTALL` in the `kim-api-v2-2.0.0` package.

Note, if you chose not to install the `kim-api-v2-2.0.0` package in the standard
location, you will need to get the kim-api library on `PATH` by doing some thing like
(assume you are using `Bash`):
```bash
$ source activate path/to/the/installed/kim-api/library/bin/kim-api-v2-activate
```

### DRIP driver and model
The `DRIP` driver and model can be obtained from my [GitHub](https://github.com/mjwen).
The "v2.0.0" branch of both the driver and model is compatible with `kim-api-v2-2.0.0`.
Below is a quick way to install them.

#### install the driver
```bash
$ git clone --branch v2.0.0 https://github.com/mjwen/DRIP_WenTadmor__MD_000000111111_000.git
$ kim-api-v2-collections-management install user ./DRIP_WenTadmor__MD_000000111111_000
```

#### install the model
```bash
$ git clone --branch v2.0.0 https://github.com/mjwen/DRIP_WenTadmor_2018_C__MO_000000111111_000.git
$ kim-api-v2-collections-management install user ./DRIP_WenTadmor_2018_C__MO_000000111111_000
```

To check that the driver and model are successfully installed, do:
```bash
$ kim-api-v2-collections-management list
```
You should be able to see
`DRIP_WenTadmor__MD_000000111111_000` and `DRIP_WenTadmor_2018_C__MO_000000111111_000`.
in the `User Collection`.


### LAMMPS (optional)

To use KIM with LAMMPS, you will need `pair_kim`.
For now please put [pair_kim.cpp](https://mjwen.github.io/files/pair_kim.cpp) and
[pair_kim.h](https://mjwen.github.io/files/pair_kim.h) into your LAMMPS `src` directory
(we have made pull request to LAMMPS and the next official release of LAMMSP will be
compatible with KIM), and then make LAMMPS the usual way you do.

`pair_kim` now only supports `atom_style atomic`, so please use it in your LAMMPS input
script.
`DRIP` only provides the interlayer interactions, so if you want to use it together
with a potential that provides the intralayer interaction (`REBO` for example), you can
use the `hybrid/overlay` pair style and put in the LAMMPS script the following lines:
```
pair_style   hybrid/overlay kim DRIP_WenTadmor_2018_C__MO_000000111111_000 rebo
pair_coeff   * * kim C
pair_coeff   * * rebo CH.airebo C
```

Note, we implement the `DRIP` potential in KIM using a different approach from the `KC`
potenital in LAMMPS.
In the KIM implementation of `DRIP`, we have a method to separate the simulation
configuration into layers automatically.
So there is no need to assign atoms into different molecules as the LAMMPS `KC`
implementation.

